This was May of 1960. 1960. Don had been offered a
fellowship for a graduate program. They wanted
him to stay on for a graduate program. But since I
was six months pregnant and had to terminate, he
didn't have summer employment. we knew we didn't
have, we couldn't financially make it through the
summer, so he decided to accept his job offer with
ARCO and for us to leave. How well, as you all began
to get into the realities, how well prepared did
you think A&M had made the two of you for real life?
For the real life?
I can only speak for the oil company situation
because At that time, you had a year's training
under them. And you went through all the different
phases. You went through chemical engineering.
You went through production. You went through
refinery.
And so you knew that the whole first year you would
be two or three months in one location, and then
you'd be moved to the next phase. And then you would
take a permanent assignment, production and
drilling and so forth. As it turned out, as Donald
went through that, our first assignment was in
Longview. Then we went to Magnolia, Arkansas. And
then we went to Midland, Texas. And then we went, I
think, to Denver City, Texas. But I can remember
that when it was all over the first year, Don
realized that his real love was in the drilling,
and he went into the drilling end of the petroleum
engineering and liked it very much and stayed with
it for a number of years. And sometime during the
mid-60s, he was made an offer with Oracle
Pipeline, and he went with the pipeline rather
than the refining. All right, but did you feel that
A&M had prepared him well? Technically, yes. And
they didn't spend a lot of time on how to build a life
other than just... All right, as you think back on
those years when you all were students, if
everybody from those years could be brought here
right now, which ones would you most want to thank,
give appreciation to?
You mean the ones that I worked with? Anybody. Oh,
well, of course, I'd certainly be very grateful to
Mr. Benson. I truly loved him. And Mr. Horsley and
his son still lives here today, and we talk about
those things every once in a while. And I still see
Mr. Hensel. I appreciated him. And Mr. McGuire, he
just died last year, and I had stayed in touch with
him throughout the years. Even after I left here,
every year at Christmas time, Mr. Benson would
send me a handwritten Christmas card. I was always
amazed that he remembered a student wife because
so many went through the office. But after my
husband died, Mr. Benson was responsible for
bringing me back here. And I shall always be
grateful for that. So there were a lot of people who
taught. And Dr. Winerdi, who's today president of
Texas Medical Center, I really liked to work with
Dr. Winerdi. He made it a challenge, and he made you
stretch. And if you do that, you have to grow.
There's no way you can do otherwise. And then, of
course, I knew who John Calhoun was at that time,
and I knew some of his work, and we did a little bit
for him in our offices. And I admired these people
greatly, and I still do today. I'm getting near the
end of questions I can think of. What have we not
covered from those student years? Well, the only
other thing I was going to add is for a little
additional income, I typed student papers for the
students. And of course, I typed all of Don's
papers. On what did you type them? A manual
typewriter. And I didn't, an Olympic typewriter
to be exact, a manual Olympic, had half space to it
so you could type formulas. With the engineers you
had to have half space so you could do the formulas.
So I would type papers for my husband and Robert
Lacey and any of the others that asked me to do so.
What was the, if you did it for a fee, what was the
fee? I think it was $25 a page, I mean 25 cents a page.
Did you do theses and dissertations, Amber? No,
just the class assignments. Okay, terrible. I
reckon how often you did? Well, every week I had a
paper to do for someone, and then I think he charged
five cents a copy because we had to do carbon
copies. There was no duplication other than that.
I can remember typing a paper for Don one night, and
he said, well, this just goes in the stack with the
rest. We've been trashing a lot of them, and so I
wadded it up and threw it in the trash. He said, no, I
meant that's a perfect one. Keep it, and I ironed
it. I spent probably an hour on it, so I can remember
taking it out and ironing it. Do you remember any
crises where you kept making an error and it wasn't
easy to correct the errors then with all those
carbon pages? Oh, yes, on those formulas, yes, you
had a lot of those crises. I can remember the night
before my daughter was born, Don had a major test,
and it was on Saturday. We had Saturday classes at
that time, and he had a geology test, and he had a lot
of words he had to know, and he was asking me to call
him out to him, and I remember dodecahedron to this
day, that he had to tell me what it meant and had to be
able to spell it, and we were still calling out
words along about midnight and we finally decided
to go to bed and she was born the next day. My water
broke sometime during the night and to this day I
still remember calling out those words. And he had
to leave me at the hospital and come back to campus
and take that major test because there was, you
didn't dare miss a major test. Then he returned to
the hospital. I think he made a nail on it. It was a
different era. Now, when did you acquire that
typewriter? Do you remember? We purchased it
after we came here, yes. What did it cost? Oh, it
might have cost $100. That was a lot of money at that
time. Was it a new one? Yes, brand
new. And you didn't have any crises of it breaking
or anything? No, the only crises that we really
ever had on equipment was... He did all of his
formulas, of course, with slide rule. And we had a
little table in our bedroom where he studied, and
we had a little lamp over it, and he laid his slide
rule down. And I left the light on at one time, and it
warped just a little bit, and he had a major test the
next day. So that was kind of a crisis. We didn't
have any pocket computers. You did slide rule. I
still have his slide rule today. Of course, a lot of
people don't know what they are. Yes, yes. What
else have we not touched on that you can think of?
That's probably more than most people want to
know. I will say that I never thought about coming
back when I left here in 1960. I never thought about
returning to Texas A&M, that that would be a major
part of my life again. But I'm so thankful that not
Glad for the reasons I came back, but that I have
returned to A&M, and it's been a wonderful
journey. Well, those of us that have had the honor
to work with you are glad that that pleasure was
ours. Then I have two questions left. One is, let's
make believe that someone walked up to you and gave
you a check for a million dollars with one
condition. You must pass it on to Texas A&M and you
decide what use they will make of the money. If you
could make a million dollar gift to Texas A&M, for
what cause would you have them spend the money? Oh,
I would probably have to put it in scholarships.
For whom? Just any student, and I wouldn't
specify. I'd say needy students, because I think
there's still a need today for students who do not
have the money First-time graduates, first-time
members out of a family who've ever been to
college, they just don't realize what a benefit it
really is for them. Don and I were first-time
college students from our families with no
financial support from either side. There were
times we weren't sure we would make it
financially, and if I had a gift, that's probably
where I would have to leave it today. Okay, then the
last question. What feelings do you hold in your
heart for Texas A&M today? Oh, very high ones. I had
planned to leave here when I got my children
through college with their bachelor's degree and
moved myself back to Dallas, and I realized I had
put down roots and loved it very much, and A&M had
been good to me, and this was home. And I'll retire
from Texas A&M.